= DNASequenceAligner

dna_sequence_aligner assumes you have a template dna sequence.  All other DNA
sequences are matched up with the template and then they are all merged into
one template-centric alignment.  The output was custom designed to show
coverage at a glance in a template-centric fashion.

The software is also written so that you can annotate your template fasta file
with comments (must lead with a '#' character).  

== Dependencies

*Clustalw* must be installed (*clustalw* package in ubuntu/debian) and generally
accessible.  

[Bioruby is heavily relied on, but it is explicitly stated as a gem dependency
so you shouldn't have to worry about it if installed by gem]

== Examples

The executable is the main item of interest.  It takes one (or more) sequence
files.  Your template should be the first fasta encountered.

    dna_sequence_aligner template.fasta others.fasta > output.aligned.txt

    # sequences in separate files
    dna_sequence_aligner template.fasta other1.fasta other2.fasta > output.aligned.txt

    # all sequences in one file (template first)
    dna_sequence_aligner all_seqs.fasta > output.aligned.txt

A comment (#) aware DNA sequence translator is provided to check and see if
things are in register and so forth.  It outputs the DNA sequence and protein
sequence below it.

    # -s 2 is a 2 nucleotide frameshift
    dna_translator.rb -s 2 dna_annotated.fasta > protein.txt

== Legend

    all gaps            <blank>
    template gap        ^
    gap below template  .
    agreement           =
    all bad matches     ^
    non-consensus       ?

== NOTE

This is very much alpha software at the moment.  It was written in a time
crunch and so it is a little rough around the edges.  However, key components
have specs written and appear to work properly.  If I have to do more
alignments or you send me pull requests then this may get to be nicer
software.

== Copyright

See LICENSE
